welcome to module one lesson 7 campaign
review this is the second step of the
eight part Google ads audit checklist
all right so we have to go ahead now and
review our campaigns depending on the
size of the account that you're
reviewing this will take longer or or
shorter so obviously the bigger the
account the more campaigns the longer
the step will take I'll run you through
this with one campaign for the sake of
time because we want to keep these
lessons no longer than 10 minutes but uh
you would follow the same exact thing
for each one of your campaigns so first
things first I just want to stay
organized here and assign myself as the
task
owner and we want to see okay do your
campaigns follow a logical naming
convention so in this case let's take a
look so just scrolling through the
account I can see they do have a logical
naming convention so I can see they've
got region theme the network the theme
that they're after the category of
keywords looks like the match type and
then the devices and the offer so they
have some right reason here what I'm
looking for is disjointed campaign names
so if I notice things like you know
someone puts um demo and it's only demo
or it's just very vague and it's not
consistent or congruent that tells me
there's no logical naming convention so
in this case we're good they have a
namey convention which is amazing it's
going to make our life way easier in the
the next steps are you targeting the
right networks so you really don't want
to make sure that you you want to make
sure you don't have search and display
enabled
so if you go into the client's campaign
you can click on the settings gear and
then just make sure that uh under
networks it's only search Network and
search Partners you don't have the
Display Network enabled you can also
like a pro tip is you can just filter by
the campaign type of
search and then you can segment by
Network so Network and then if they did
have the Display Network enabled you
would see Impressions by the Display
Network when you look at the total drop
down in addition to that the search and
Display Network the campaign icon looks
different from this so that's another
way for you to know it's really good is
your location targeting and options
still accurate so let's take a look at
our location
options so we go to locations options I
see they have present chosen which is
great we don't want to have presence or
interest most of the time there are
exceptions but uh if we want to reach
people who are actually in our Target
locations or who commute through there
very frequently we want to make sure we
have pres set so that looks good you can
also come here to settings campaign
settings and uh you can see all of the
settings at the campaign level across
campaigns and bulk and then you can add
a additional parameters here if you want
to just look at different things at once
versus going into each campaign but
we're good there so I'm going to mark
that complete
are you targeting one language per
campaign with relevant ads and landing
pages so coming back here do we have one
language per campaign so if I noticed
you know in this case it seems like the
answer is yes it's all English but if
they had English and Spanish that could
be an issue because depending on the
locations they're targeting people in
Spanish could be searching in Spanish
and then they see our English ads which
can cause disconnect so you want to make
sure thatth if you're advertising in
English your keywords are in English and
your lighting page is in English so you
just have that consistent message match
in that local language so in this case
it looks like we're good uh so I'm going
to go ahead and Mark this
complete next up is your daily budget
still aligned with your goals this one
you're going to need to run through the
Google ads budget calculator or just
talk with the client and kind of get an
understanding of what they want to to
see if this makes sense but generally
speaking uh I don't recommend less than
50 bucks a day uh obviously it's very
circumstantial if you have a average
cost per click of like $2 $5 you can get
away with a budget lower than that of
$50 but uh generally speaking in B2B it
can be a little bit more expensive on
Google ads so 50 is kind of like a rule
of thumb but this is something you're
just going to have to check for yourself
and see if it Mak sense I know for this
client their budget does make sense just
based on our conversation so I can go
and Mark that complete are you using the
correct bidding strategy so let's take a
look
here so this client is using manual CPC
bidding
uh in this case I actually don't think
this is the right move for them they
have enough conversion volume so they
should start to switch over to something
like Target CPA bidding uh to see if we
can drive conversions at a a reasonable
cost per acquisition so in this case I'm
going to mark that as a option here so
we finished this step but uh they do not
have it so I'm going to make a note
here using manual
CPC so I'm just making a note to myself
s okay they're using manual I think we
can improve here do you have correct
conversion action set applied so in the
campaign do they have a conversion
action set applied or are they
inheriting their account conversions
under goals if they have the account
level one that's totally fine it's not
necessarily like a bad or good thing
it's just something you're looking out
for but if they have a specific
conversion action set created and
they're applying it to this specific
campaign then you would see where they
have specific goals counted the reason
this matter you want to look at it is
because if they only have the the goal
specific settings at the campaign level
then they're not counting these other
account wide ones which isn't
necessarily bad or good but it's just
something to be mindful of so you want
to make sure if they do have this that
they have all of the conversion actions
that matter in their conversion funnel
mapped to the campaign so that it's
getting associated with credit uh for
bidding so I'm going to go mark this
complete so they don't looks like
they're using the um account wide ones
are your ad rotation settings still
accurate so just coming down here how
are we rotating our
ads um generally speaking I recommend
that you just do prefer best performing
ads if you do find that you're having
some issues where Google's serving some
ads dramatically more than others then
you can just put rotate ads indefinitely
and then Google will distribute each ad
individually but uh I generally leave
this uh most of the time so that looks
fine to me is your ad schedule still up
to date so let's just take a quick peek
here for uh one of these campaigns look
at the ad schedule so it looks like
they're running ads Monday to Friday and
then Saturday and Sunday they have a
negative bid adjustment of 70% so
they're bidding down on the weekend of
minus 70% and then they're showing ads
Monday through Friday so this could be a
good opportunity if they're they're
dropping their bids by 70% on the
weekend maybe we can make the case of
like hey just show your ads Monday to
Friday right and we can actually here
and see if we're noticing conversions
coming in on the weekend vers not so
doesn't look like much activity on
Saturdays and Sundays so in this case it
looks like we're good here and I'm just
going to leave a note minus 70% bit
adjustment on
Saturdays
Sunday and we're going to mark that
complete okay are you targeting the
right devices so in this case with this
campaign let's take a
look
so are they targeting the right
devices okay it looks like they've got
only desktops enabled on this campaign
which makes sense because uh they're
only trying to Target desktop and their
naming convention that's what that d
stands for desktop so they're only
showing desktop on this campaign they've
blocked out mobile and tablet with this
negative 100% bid adjustment so that
tells me this is congruent if if had
here all devices and then they're only
showing on desktop then that would be an
issue so this looks
good so we're going to mark that
complete are you excluding existing
leads and sales from your campaign so
let's take a look at the audience
section and just see are they using
exclusions so let's open up this table I
can see they're excluding customers but
it's too small so this is an opportunity
to to add more exclusions so let's make
a
note
okay do you have observational audiences
added to your campaign let's take a
look and in this case they do which is
great observational audiences don't cost
you anything and they allow you to see
how certain audiences perform and this
can inform uh future campaigns in the uh
after this which is great so they do and
they have bit adjustments as well which
is good so I'm going to mark that
complete
and then lastly have you been actively
running campaign experiments in the past
so really what I'm looking for is are
they leveraging the campaign experiment
tool here uh or not so in this case it
looks like they've actually ran quite a
few experiments which is great and if I
look in their account they actually have
one live right now a campaign experiment
which is fantastic a lot of clients
actually don't Leverage The Campaign
experiment feature we're going to talk
about this in a future lesson but it's
uh it's awesome so that's it that's we
review The Campaign so you do the exact
same thing for each of your campaigns
throughout your account again it takes
time it's the boring unsexy work but
this is how you spot things by really
going into the account your action item
for this lesson is to review your
campaigns and Mark each completed step
within the checklist template I hope you
receive a ton of value so far please
share AC version with your colleagues or
leave us a testimonial appreciate any
helping the word I'll see you in the
next one
[Music]